# Undergraduate Physics Research Papers
A collection of three scientific papers I wrote during my undergraduate physics studies at the Ohio State University.

1. [Single and Double-slit Interference with a Laser and One Photon at a Time](https://github.com/handerso/undergraduate_scientific_papers/blob/main/Single%20and%20Double-slit%20Interference%20with%20a%20Laser%20and%20One%20Photon%20at%20a%20Time.pdf)
Abstract: The purpose of this experiment is to observe wave-particle behavior and test Fraunhofer diffraction theory when multiple photons and individual photons pass through both single and double-slits. Two separate light sources are used: a laser and a green-filtered lightbulb; aligned so that photons which are emitted may travel through varying slit orientations into a photodiode and a photomultiplier tube both in groups and individually, respectively. We find that when observed, light in both cases creates interference patterns; implying that individual photons are interfering with themselves.
2. [Identifying Unknown Materials with X-Rays by Testing Moseley’s Law and Bragg’s Law](https://github.com/handerso/undergraduate_scientific_papers/blob/main/Identifying%20Unknown%20Materials%20with%20X-Rays%20by%20Testing%20Moseley%E2%80%99s%20Law%20and%20Bragg%E2%80%99s%20Law.pdf))
Abstract: In this experiment, characteristic x-rays from various known and unknown metals and crystals will be measured in order to test Moseley’s law and Bragg’s law, respectively. Moseley’s law will be tested by determining the frequency of characteristic x-rays of known metals and creating a Moseley plot; fitting the data to judge the proportionality. Bragg’s law is tested by identifying the angle at which peak x-ray diffraction occurs in known crystals to ascertain the distance between their atomic lattice planes. In conducting this experiment, we find that Moseley’s law accurately relates K and L-shell x-ray emissions to their element’s atomic number, and in testing Bragg’s law, we find that x-ray diffraction indeed occurs and allows us to calculate the distance between crystal lattice planes. 
3. [Measuring the Charge of an Electron through Millikan’s Oil Drop Experiment](https://github.com/handerso/undergraduate_scientific_papers/blob/main/Measuring%20the%20Charge%20of%20an%20Electron%20through%20Millikan%E2%80%99s%20Oil%20Drop%20Experiment.pdf)
Abstract: Here we conduct Millikan’s oil drop experiment in order to measure the charge of an electron. Electrically charged oil droplets are sprayed with an atomizer into a capacitor and are digitally recorded when in free-fall due to gravity and when an electric field is present. Digital video microscopy techniques, such as Crocker-Grier algorithms, are used to computationally track and measure their velocities; allowing us to calculate their charge using a derivation of Newton’s second law equations. In conducting this experiment, we find that the oil droplets exhibit a variety of charges, all of which can be quantized as a factor of a single charge: 1.47·10-19 coulombs.
